Chad Tomas
For Zappos.Code() 2012
May 30, 2012

Building a Zoo for Dragons

The first step in my design process would be to brainstorm the design of the zoo with two goals in mind: keeping the dragons happy and healthy and keeping the customers alive and well. Room for expansion in case the zoo gets popular and the customers want to see more dragons is also taken into consideration. 

After doing research on dragons and how they interact with each other and their environments, I focus on keeping the dragons happy and healthy first since we are building the zoo specifically to house dragons. Since dragons are big, I want to make sure that there is enough room for dragons in the same containment to fly around. And because they breathe fire, I also want to make their environment fire-proof so that the firefighters don't always have to come and put out zoo fires.

Now focusing on the other goal of keeping customers safe, I would consider a wall of separation that would prevent the customers from getting torched by dragon breath. I would also not build any part of the zoo out of wood because wood could catch fire and burn the zoo down. As an extra precaution, I would look for a large, spacious area far away from civilization to build the zoo. This is so that I can build large areas where dragons can roam as well as keep them as far away from cities in case they manage to escape. In case they do escape, it would be easier to find the dragon and take care of the problem if they were in wide open areas rather than a city with skyscrapers where dragons can hide and cause damage.

With those criteria in mind, I proceed to the next step of actual construction. Based on what we wanted out of the zoo, I decide to make multiple dome-like steel structures with spacious environments for the dragons to live in. Each dome would cater to the different species of dragons and how they react to certain environments. For example, a dome with a mountain environment would house dragons who like to make their homes in rocky mountain sides, while a grassy green environment would cater to dragons who like roaming around the peaceful country side. Having multiple domes would also help us to separate dragons who don't interact well with other dragons as well as save time and money in the case we do decide to expand our dragon collection.

To add to that, I'd make sure each environment is fire-proof, either by coating everything with a fire-proof layer or using items that are pretty much fire-proof already, such as rocks. To ensure things stay that way, I would also include a sprinkler system at the the top of the dome that would spew out water mixed with fire-proofing, dragon-friendly ingredients. This serves two purposes- put out any fires in case something does go wrong and periodically fire-proof the environment and dragons to prevent more fires from happening. To make sure the dragons are happy, I'd have an open air roof reinforced with steel bars so they can get proper air and sunlight. As an added insurance to keep the dragons happy, I would prohibit knights in shining armor from entering the zoo. Dragons hate knights.

To keep customers happy, I would surround each dome with bullet-proof and fire-proof glass backed by reinforced steel bars. This would prevent customers from getting burned alive and in the case that dragons are able to break the glass, they won't be able to escape and eat a customer since the steel bars will prohibit them from doing so. I would also set up a ten-foot perimeter around each dome as a restricted area to keep customers safe.

Once the zoo is completed with all those specifications in mind, I would have the dragons test out their environments to make sure they like it as well as to make sure the barriers we've created to keep the customers safe actually work. Once the domes have been settled in (at least a month) and we've made any changes to cater to the dragons health and happiness as well as made sure it's safe for customers, I would then open the dragon zoo. And voila, we have a zoo that keeps customers safe and dragons happy and healthy!
