Chad Tomas
May 30, 2012

While shopping for some green shoes to go with my green wardrobe on Zappos back in 2011, I noticed a little “Now Hiring” sign in the top right corner of the page. After perusing through some of the job listings in my field, I decided I'd return later when I actually met the qualifications.

The next semester in my business communications class, I was tasked with picking a company and writing a hypothetical business proposal for an international expansion for that company. I didn't know much about the company then, but seeing as I did have an interest the semester before, I decided to choose Zappos for my business proposal. What better way to learn about a company you'd love to work for than by profiling them in a business proposal paper? And after a month's worth of extensive research, I thought to myself, “WOW! This place is even cooler than I thought!”

I mean seriously, what could be better than working for a nationally recognized e-commerce business that consistently finishes at the top of all “Best Places to Work”  lists AND calls Las Vegas its home? At that point, I was getting excited at just the thought of getting an interview with Zappos. At the end of that semester, I checked back on the job listings, only to find the one job I was actually qualified for was already taken.
 
Fast forward to 2012, and I get a call from my cousin who tells me about this awesome new program Zappos is running for students of the computer sciences and tells me to take a look into it as it's right up my alley. Fortunately for me, it was right up my alley. Designing web pages dedicated to surviving the zombie apocalypse? Yup. Writing a program for ninjas who need their bookshelf sorted? Awesome. Writing up a design plan for a dragon zoo? No problem. Now the only thing left standing is for me to tell you what excites me about Zappos and Zappos.Code(). The list goes on and on, and I really can't find a reason that doesn't excite me.

First and foremost, what excites me the most about Zappos is the culture. Tony Hsieh has got to be the genius of the century for creating such a family atmosphere at Zappos that delivers quality customer service while keeping employees happy. It's not an easy thing to do, especially when you have as big a family as Zappos has. I had recently come across Zappos' Culture Book in a book store and I could not find anything bad that employees had to say about the company.

This leads me to Zappos' Core Values, which really should be the framework that all companies should be built on nowadays. Of the ten Core Values, the ones that stick out to me are “Create Fun and a Little Weirdness,” Be  Adventurous, Creative, and Open-Minded”, “Pursue Growth and Learning,” “Build a Positive Team and Family Spirit,” and “Be Passionate and Determined”.

As someone who believes in the adage, “Do what you love and you'll never have to work a day in your life,” I can appreciate the values that the Zappos family maintains. It assures me that Zappos doesn't treat everyone as just another employee, but as actual family, people who you would see even after work to have dinner with. That comes from building a positive team and family spirit, which really excites me to no end knowing that I'll have family around me who are as passionate about others as they are about their work.

What excites me about Zappos.Code() is the ability for me to showcase my talents in all aspects of web development as well as envisioning a great product with ideas that I'm able to contribute to the collective effort. I want to create “fun and a little weirdness” by being “adventurous and creative” in my ideas with something that I feel so “passionate and determined” about doing. If given the opportunity, I think it would be very exciting to be able to be a part of that.

What's more, I know I still have a long way to go before my coding and design skills are up to industry standards. In this day and age, it seems so hard for students in the computer sciences to find jobs that would actually help them grow. Companies nowadays seem to want employees with three to five-plus years of industry experience in a multitude of different platforms and programming languages. And in most entry-level jobs, it seems like you can only learn so much before reaching a plateau for learning. In my last job, I was an IT Technician/Web Developer, but since I was the only one doing any developing, I couldn't learn the tricks of the trade from a mentor and as a result, I felt like I hit that plateau for learning.

That's where I feel Zappos.Code() is different from other companies looking for the best and brightest from today's young minds. Zappos.Code() takes students under their wings and shows them the front-end and back-end of development. As I've never had that kind of experience before, I think this would be a great opportunity to study under the tutelage of Zappos' programming gurus. Zappos.Code() would be a great start for me, but it would also help me to “pursue growth and learning.” It's also exciting to bounce ideas off of my peers. It's not just the gurus I can learn from, it's also the people my age I can learn from as well. Their approach on a problem could be different, but more efficient, than my solution, and being able to work with talented peers would be a bonus to learning from the Zappos' gurus. And since I know Zappos' programming gurus are good at what they do and love what they do, I know that everything I learn from Zappos.Code() is something I can take with me down the road later on in life. It is life-long learning at its best.

Detailing what excites me about Zappos and Zappos.Code() has made me even more excited at the prospect of being apart of such a great company to work for. I really hope that one day, I'll be able to call Zappos not just my employer, but also my family. 


